= Downloads =
All releases can be downloaded by following [/download/ this link].
'''Always''' cryptographically verify downloaded image files.

Each release directory contains several files:
* checksums.sha256 — this file contains cryptographically strong secure
  hash checksum of ''.img.gz'' and ''.opensan'' images. It should be
  used to check integrity of those images after downloading.
* checksums.sha256.asc — checksum-file verification signature made by
  our [wiki:Team team]. It should be used to check the validity of
  provided checksum-file and therefore if retrieved images are approved
  exactly by us.
* openwrt-x86*-astor2-combined-ext4.img.gz — compressed raw binary image
  of hard drive containing OpenSAN installation. Can be used as a
  starting point of the very new OpenSAN setup.
* openwrt-x86*-astor2.opensan — firmware image that is used for
  upgrading existing installation through Web-interface.
* output.log.gz — compressed log-file of overall build process. 
  Useful from development point of view.

= Checking distribution integrity =
* If you verify OpenSAN-related files for the first time, then you must
  import our team's public [wiki:Publickey PGP key] into your keyring.
  You can do it using the following command:
{{{
wget -O - http://www.opensan.org/trac/wiki/Publickey | gpg --import
}}}
* After downloading either ''.img.gz'' or ''.opensan'' distribution
  images your should also download corresponding checksum-file and it's
  signature.
* Verify checksum-file validity by executing the following command
  inside the directory containing both checksum-file and it's signature:
{{{
gpg --verify checksums.sha256.asc
}}}
* At last compare calculated downloaded distribution image's checksum
  with corresponding one in checksum-file:
{{{
sha256sum IMAGE
}}}

= Building from source code=
Source code is always available on
[https://github.com/astor2-team/astor2 Git-repository].
You can clone it using following command:
{{{
git clone git://github.com/astor2-team/astor2.git astor2
}}}

You will require following dependencies necessary for building OpenSAN
image:
* GNU build tools
* bash
* binutils
* bzip2
* flex
* g++
* gcc
* GNU awk
* intltool
* libz-dev
* make
* ncurses
* OpenSSL
* patch
* perl-modules
* unzip
* zlib1g-dev

Under Debian/Ubuntu distributions you can install everything of this by
single command:
{{{
apt-get install build-essential bash binutils bzip2 flex g++ gcc \
  gawk intltool zlib1g-dev make libncurses5-dev libssl-dev patch \
  perl-modules unzip
}}}

After sourcecode is got and dependencies are met, you should change
you directory to ''openwrt'' and execute following:
{{{
./scripts/feeds update
./scripts/feeds install -a
make defconfig
make
}}}

Some packages may grow old and links to them can die, so we provide our
[/download/dl/ cached download] directory of all those packages. Use it,
if something is not available. However we try to keep an eye on them.
Contents of that download directory must be placed into
''openwrt/dl''.

Ready to use images after build are in ''openwrt/bin/x86*''.
