= 2.4.2 =
SCST updated to 2.2.x version.

= 2.4.1 =
Broadcom NetXtremeII-based NICs support.

= 2.4 =
SSD caching capability. You can use free physical drives for caching of
hot most-frequently used data heap. Drive is just simply ''attached'' to
existing logical drive.

= 2.3.1 =
This is bugfix release. Fixes issues with invalid service boot sequence.

= 2.3 =
Extensive use of system memory for caching purposes. '''All''' reads from
block devices are cached. However ability to switch between either
!WriteBack or !WriteThrough modes of operation is possible.

= 2.2.1 =
This release contains only single bugfix related to produced
'''combined''' disk images size. Previously it could not create the
forth partition dedicated for log saving. You had to enlarge this
file. Hardware storage devices, as a rule, are larger than disk
image file and work perfectly.

= 2.2 =
* MPT2 SAS controller support
* I350-based Intel NICs support
* Highly improved user interface performance
* Ability to view hard drive's temperature
* SMART information retrieving via background AJAX-requests
* Logical drive online transparent growing capability

= 2.1 =
* New much better interface outlook
* Ability to manually set date and time and other different useful interface refactoring

= 2.0 =
* This version is based on 1.5.3.1 previous one.
* OpenSAN runs on x86_64 64bit systems, gaining ability to fully use all available RAM without any PAE or similar extensions.
* SCST subsystem updated from 2.0.0.x to 2.1.0.x branch.
* Linux updated to the latest 2.6.32.50. This latest kernel includes many SCSI-related (and thus related to SCST too) issues and fixes.
* OpenWRT's overall base updated to nearly three thousand revisions.

= 1.7 =
* Ability to view various JBOD related information about disk enclosures, power supply and FAN states. Logical drive members located on JBOD can be easily determined.
* Fixed possible issues with non viewable system log
* Password length obviously can be more than 12 characters long

= 1.6 =
Main SAN page now contains new fith column, called "Sessions". It
displays all current active iSCSI sessions with each available target.
Different technical session-related information can be retrieved, that
may help in solving issues with heterogeneous initiators.

= 1.5.6 =
This is bugfix release:
* SCST subsystem requires LUN0 existence. Now you are forced to use LUN0 for the first binded !AccessPattern. Also you can not unbind LUN0 if other LUNs exist.
* Fixed possible Snapshot's size calculation. It can not be larger than free space on Logical drive anyway.
* Fixed issue with inability to bind !AccessPattern to the Snapshot.

= 1.5.5 =
This release brings an important capability of storing all log files permanently in a separate partition. After firmware updating, the system will create forth separate partition with XFS filesystem. That may lead to double system reboot. Syslog daemon is configured to store up to one hundred of rotated megabyte log files.

= 1.5.4 =
* Disabled console blanking, that is useful for permanent system availability monitoring
* Snapshot's size is limited by original !LogicalVolume's one
* Bugfix: forcefully activate an array after system reboot anyway, even if it is degraded and dirty
* Bugfix: clean up possibly staying alive iSCSI sessions linked to failed arrays

= 1.5.3 =
* Ability to deploy improperly aligned 4KiB-sector storage devices. For example many SSDs have shifted first physical sector for Windows partitioning compensation.
* Prevent LVM-related metainformation caching, that may cause data inconsistency, leading to unworkability.
* Using of more stronger SHA256 hash function firmware update image checksumming, instead of MD5 one.
* More russian translation

= 1.5.2 =
This update release includes 1.4.3 and contains serious bugfix (bug can occur with manually created LVM !VolumeGroups with slightly different format values).

= 1.5.1 =
This is minor bugfix release. The only noticeable for a user bugfix is real clearing of logical volumes with disks during opensan-factory-defaults command's work and when there are active iSCSI sessions.

= 1.5 =
* Reset to factory defaults ability appeared.
* Ability to boot from AHCI SATA-based flash drives.
* UPS daemon (apcupsd) is included. One can configure it manually to be able to use.
* sgeraser utility is included. It can be used either to zero disk contents or to secure erase it. It's main feature is ability to resume interrupted operation.

= 1.4.3 =
This update release includes 1.3.2.

= 1.4.2 =
This release contains several very important bugfixes:

* All available hard drives have disabled any power management capabilities and power saving modes.
* !AccessPatterns pointing to non-existent device targets won't be applied and tried to be configured. System will just skip them. That will help if dirty SCST's configuration is on.

= 1.4.1 =
This is bugfix release, that includes 1.3.1.

= 1.4 =
This release brings IPv6 protocol support. iSCSI, SSH and overall routing are ready to work over IPv6 protocol.

= 1.3.2 =
* Bonding's “downdelay”, “updelay”, “miimon”, “mode” options are not necessary required.
* Maximal number of network bondings is 128, so practically there is not any limit.
* Bonding interfaces can have any visible user-defined ASCII name (as with all other interfaces).

All users upgrading from 1.3.1 or earlier versions should not worry
about new bonding-related configuration format. This version is fully
compatible with it.

= 1.3.1 =
This is bugfix release. It includes 1.2.1 release and fixes the bug, where only default bonding's MII monitoring time is applied.

= 1.3 =
Appeared ability to bond multiple networking interfaces together. One
can use several interfaces as single virtual channel with specified
properties, varying between reliability and performance targets. Bonding
capability fully relies on Linux built-in “bonding” kernel module,
providing six bonding policies:

* round-robin balancing (providing load balancing and fault tolerance)
* active backup (single acting interface) (only fault tolerance)
* XOR balancing (load balancing and fault tolerance)
* broadcasting (all interfaces are active) (only fault tolerance)
* IEEE 802.3ad dynamic link aggregation

Our bonding implementation use only MII-based link monitoring. ARP is
not a choice, as it is too IPv4-biased, although it does not require
lower-level device drivers necessary MII support.

= 1.2.1 =
This is bugfix release, that repairs serious problem with possible
network reconfiguration unability. Also it contains more russian
translations.

= 1.2 =
Appeared ability to '''authenticate incoming''' iSCSI connections on a
target. This ability fully relies on standard CHAP-based authentication
scheme. User can specify several authentication credentials per single
iSCSI target. Each credential is just a pair of username and it's
password.

= 1.1.2 =
Removed unnecessary status information about active TCP connections.
This information has no value for SAN system, that does not have even
NAT capabilities.

= 1.1.1 =
This release is interesting only to developers, not the common users.
It's distribution contains useful '''ip addr/route/link''' network
utilities. Of course they can be used remotely by system/network
administers. Also SCST Lua library '''logs''' all scstadmin's command
'''output''' in separate file, that can be useful for debugging purposes.

= 1.1 =
* '''Caching policies''' changing support: now, user can distinguish between write back and write through logical drive's mode of operation. Write back policy allows some buffering (caching) of write operations, while write through performs writing directly to the hard drives. This mode also forces disabling of all hard drive's internal write caching.  User can switch to this mode by setting “WriteThrough mode” in one of corresponding to logical disk access patterns. This mode will be applied to the whole logical disk. * Disk subsystem '''performance optimizations''': various fine tweaks of I/O scheduler's (CFQ) queue behaviour, buffer sizes and read-ahead support.

= 1.0 =
* '''Physical''' drives and '''logical''' drives (either JBOD or RAID) management
** Supported RAID levels: '''0''', '''1''', '''5''', '''6''', '''10'''
** Dedicated '''hotspare''' drives support
* '''Logical volumes''' management
** Virtually '''unlimited''' volumes quantity on single logical drive
** Logical volume '''resize''' support
** '''Snapshots''' support
* '''iSCSI''' targets management
* '''iSCSI-3''' [http://publib.boulder.ibm.com/infocenter/clresctr/vxrx/topic/com.ibm.cluster.gpfs32.diagnosis.doc/bl1pdg_understandpr.html persistent reservation] technology support
* Comprehensive controller code '''unittesting''' and small so-called '''remotetesting''' framework to perform exhaustive benchmarking and testing of different system components and subsystems
* Text-mode console is also available on RS232 '''serial port'''
* '''Firmware updating''' through Web-interface form
* Command-line interface (CLI) accessibility via '''SSH 2.0''' (with SCP support)
* Ability to '''backup''' overall configuration with restoring it later
* Network configuration can be done using either '''static IPv4''' addressing and routing, '''DHCP''' or using '''bridged''' interfaces
* Real-time load average, traffic and connections '''monitoring'''
