= Downloads =

Recommended and suitable for your needs releases can be found
[Downloads.html here].

'''Always''' cryptographically verify downloaded image files.

Each release directory contains several files:
* checksums.sha256 — this file contains cryptographically strong secure hash checksum of ''.img.gz'' and ''.opensan'' images. It should be used to check integrity of those images after downloading.
* checksums.sha256.asc — checksum-file verification signature made by our [wiki:Contacts team]. It should be used to check the validity of provided checksum-file and therefore if retrieved images are approved exactly by us.
* openwrt-x86*-astor2-combined-ext4.img.gz — compressed raw binary image of hard drive containing OpenSAN installation. Can be used as a starting point of the very new OpenSAN setup.
* openwrt-x86*-astor2.opensan — firmware image that is used for upgrading existing installation through Web-interface.
* output.log.gz — compressed log-file of overall build process. Useful from development point of view.

= Checking distribution integrity =
* If you verify OpenSAN-related files for the first time, then you must import our team's public [wiki:Publickey PGP key] into your keyring. You can do it using the following command:
{{{
wget -O - http://www.opensan.org/trac/wiki/Publickey | gpg --import
}}}
* After downloading either ''.img.gz'' or ''.opensan'' distribution images your should also download corresponding checksum-file and it's signature.
* Verify checksum-file validity by executing the following command inside the directory containing both checksum-file and it's signature:
{{{
gpg --verify checksums.sha256.asc
}}}
* At last compare calculated downloaded distribution image's checksum with corresponding one in checksum-file:
{{{
sha256sum IMAGE
}}}

= Building from source code=
Source code is always available on
[https://github.com/astor2-team/astor2 Git-repository].
You can clone it using following command:
{{{
git clone git://github.com/astor2-team/astor2.git astor2
}}}

You will require following dependencies necessary for building OpenSAN
image:
* GNU build tools
* bash
* binutils
* bzip2
* flex
* g++
* gcc
* GNU awk
* intltool
* libz-dev
* make
* ncurses
* OpenSSL
* patch
* perl-modules
* unzip
* zlib1g-dev

Under Debian/Ubuntu distributions you can install everything of this by
single command:
{{{
apt-get install build-essential bash binutils bzip2 flex g++ gcc \
  gawk intltool zlib1g-dev make libncurses5-dev libssl-dev patch \
  perl-modules unzip
}}}

After sourcecode is got and dependencies are met, you should change
you directory to ''openwrt'' and execute following:
{{{
./scripts/feeds update
./scripts/feeds install -a
make defconfig
make
}}}

Some packages may grow old and links to them can die, so we provide our
[/download/dl/ cached download] directory of all those packages. Use it,
if something is not available. However we try to keep an eye on them.
Contents of that download directory must be placed into
''openwrt/dl''.

Ready to use images after build are in ''openwrt/bin/x86*''.

= Running under virtual machine =

== KVM ==

You should configure disk and network subsystems to be able to use
OpenSAN.

* Create several raw hard drive images. We will create three. They are just big empty files. You can create them with ''dd'' command (''SIZE'' is measured in gibibytes):
{{{
dd if=/dev/zero of=disk1.raw bs=1G count=SIZE
dd if=/dev/zero of=disk2.raw bs=1G count=SIZE
dd if=/dev/zero of=disk3.raw bs=1G count=SIZE
}}}
* Decompress ''.img.gz'' disk image:
{{{
gunzip openwrt-x86*-astor2-combined-ext4.img.gz
}}}
* Run KVM itself:
{{{
kvm -m 256 -hda openwrt-x86*-astor2-combined-ext4.img \
  -hdb disk1.raw -hdc disk2.raw -hdd disk3.raw \
  -net nic -net tap
}}}
* After successful startup KVM will create ''tap'' virtual network interface. Assume that we got ''tap0'' device. You can configure IPv4 network on it, to be able to access via Web-browser to OpenSAN's user interface:
{{{
ip link set up dev tap0
ip addr add 192.168.1.2/30 dev tap0
}}}
* Follow http://192.168.1.1/ URL in your Web-browser

== VirtualBox OSE ==

* Create virtual machine instance (named ''opensan''):
{{{
mkdir -p $HOME/.VirtualBox/Machines
VBoxManage createvm --name opensan --ostype Ubuntu_64 \
  --basefolder $HOME/.VirtualBox/Machines --register
}}}
* Tune default machine configuration (for example single CPU system with 256 MiB RAM):
{{{
VBoxManage modifyvm opensan --memory 256 --cpus 1 --hwvirtex on
}}}
* Create virtual network interface card:
{{{
VBoxManage hostonlyif create
}}}
* Find the newly created interface name (for example ''vboxnet0''):
{{{
VBoxManage list hostonlyifs
}}}
* Add this interface to virtual machine instance:
{{{
VBoxManage modifyvm opensan --nic1 hostonly \
  --nictype1 82540EM --cableconnected1 on \
  --hostonlyadapter1 vboxnet0
}}}
* Add hardware SATA controller:
{{{
VBoxManage storagectl opensan --name sata-controller \
  --add sata --controller IntelAhci --sataportcount 4
}}}
* !VirtualBox looks at file extension and it requires raw images to have ''.hdd'' one:
{{{
mv openwrt-x86_64-astor2-combined-ext4.img openwrt-x86_64-astor2-combined-ext4.hdd
}}}
* Create several raw hard drive images. We will create three. They are just big empty files. You can create them with ''dd'' command (''SIZE'' is measured in gibibytes):
{{{
dd if=/dev/zero of=disk1.hdd bs=1G count=SIZE
dd if=/dev/zero of=disk2.hdd bs=1G count=SIZE
dd if=/dev/zero of=disk3.hdd bs=1G count=SIZE
}}}
* Attach all images to virtual machine instance (assume that all those images are in user's home directory):
{{{
VBoxManage storageattach opensan --storagectl sata-controller \
  --port 0 --device 0 --type hdd \
  --medium $HOME/openwrt-x86_64-astor2-combined-ext4.hdd
VBoxManage storageattach opensan --storagectl sata-controller \
  --port 1 --device 0 --type hdd --medium $HOME/disk1.hdd
VBoxManage storageattach opensan --storagectl sata-controller \
  --port 2 --device 0 --type hdd --medium $HOME/disk2.hdd
VBoxManage storageattach opensan --storagectl sata-controller \
  --port 3 --device 0 --type hdd --medium $HOME/disk3.hdd
}}}
* Specify the bootable media:
{{{
VBoxManage modifyvm opensan --boot1 disk --boot2 none \
  --boot3 none --boot4 none
}}}
* And start virtual machine instance at last:
{{{
VBoxManage startvm opensan
}}}
* Configure your network and point your browser as described in KVM section
